---
title: Snowfall Lib v3 Migration
description: Migrate from Snowfall Lib v2 to v3
---

Snowfall Lib v3 improves Home-Manager integration and introduces some quality of life
improvements to the library. To migrate from v2 to v3, follow the steps below.

## Home-Manager Within NixOS

Changes have been made to the way that Snowfall Lib works with Home-Manager and its modules.
In previous versions `homeModules` were often not loaded correctly and certain features like
imports and internal packages were unavailable in different circumstances.

With Snowfall Lib v3, `home-manager.useGlobalPkgs` is now defaulted to `true` which will result
in the same package set (including internal packages) being used in your user homes. In order to
resolve the issue with home-manager modules and imports, all home-manager configuration must now
be performed through the options in `snowfallorg.user.${user-name}.home.config`. This is an
attribute set which maps directly to your home configuration.

```nix
{
    # Before
    home-manager.users.my-user.packages = with pkgs; [
        my-package
    ];
}
```

```nix
{
    # After
    snowfallorg.users.my-user.home.config.packages = with pkgs; [
        my-package
    ];
}
```

In addition, `specialArgs` are now passed to Home-Manager modules even when used within your
NixOS configuration. This previously only worked standalone.

## Target Wide Home-Manager

Snowfall Lib v3 now supports declaring home-manager configurations for a user that will be
added to _every_ system of the same target. To use this feature, create or move an existing
configuration to `homes/<target>/<user>`. If a `@<host>` suffix is not included in the
name, the configuration will be included for every host of the matching target. Homes created
this way are also exported using the special generated name `<user>@<target>`.

For example, if you created a home `homes/x86_64-linux/jake/default.nix`, the home will be
included for every `x86_64-linux` machine and will be exported on your Flake as
`homeConfigurations."jake@x86_64-linux"`.

## Overlays

Overlay inputs have been reworked to be more useful and less surprising. Now overlays are passed
`lib` and `inputs` arguments in addition to `channels`.

```nix
# Before
{ my-input, channels, ... }:
final: prev: {
    # ...
}
```

```nix
# After
{ inputs, channels, lib, ... }:
let
    my-input = inputs.my-input;
in
final: prev: {
    # ...
}
```

Inputs are still available as named arguments, but this usage is deprecated and will be removed
in a future release.

## First-Class Namespace Support

As of v3, all Snowfall Lib manged files will now be provided a `namespace` argument. This argument
is the value of `snowfall.namespace` used in your Flake's call to `mkFlake`. If not set, the value
is defaulted to `internal`.

## Snowfall Modules

Starting with this version of Snowfall Lib, additional modules are now automatically added to systems
and homes to provide additional context and functionality. For more information, see the options available
in [Systems](/guides/lib/systems) and [Homes](/guides/lib/homes).
